# Simulink-Model-of-Active-Sonar-System
Ultrasonic technology has been prevailing since decades. The use of ultrasonic technology has multi-ple applications including ultrasonic distance measurement systems, SONAR etc. The source of inspira-tion for the development of sonar technology has been de-rived from nature by imitating the navigation system of bats, dolphins and whales etc using ultrasonic sound waves. This is known as echolocation as was first coined by Griffin. Requirement of precision in distance measurement has been a crying need in numerous applications of science and technology. The need for precision in determining geometric distances led to the design and development of active ultrasonic transducers to utilize the properties of sound for such application like underwater perception, on air distance meas-urement etc. 

The working mechanism of active ultrasonic transducers re-quire continuous transducer excitation to transmit sound waves at ultrasonic ranges. In order to excite these transduc-ers, the power supply has to be applied maintaining certain transducer specifications. The requirement of precise power at defined frequency is essential to avoid power loss and ob-tain optimum competences. The transmission of signals at resonant frequency depending on the characteristics of each transducer is thus necessary. The transducer parameters maintain versatility and every system is to be designed ac-cording to its own specifications. Therefore, all available transducers in the market needs to have its own specified module to excite and receive the transmitted signals as echo. As mentioned by Wang & Tsai, transducers can be dynamically modelled using constitutive electrical and mechanical equations to study and analyze its responses. These equations could be employed to understand, character-ize and simulate the behavior of transducers for determining the requirements to design modules.

As transducers can be modelled using resistors and capacitors, the primary conditions for transducer excitation are power and frequency matching through RLC networks. Once, the power and frequency are matched according to the trans-ducer impedance following the maximum power transfer the-orem, the transducer will transmit bursts of ultrasonic waves. These waves will then generate reflected waves or echoes when they are obstructed. The echo will evidently have to be perceived so that the measurement of distance could be de-termined from the time of flight [TOF] and the speed of sound in the medium using speed-distance equa-tions. However, the echo received are usually contaminated by noises from the environment. This signal requires refining through filters so that only the echo can be detected from the environment.

Under such circumstances, the paper proposes a module de-sign for 200 KHz active ultrasonic transducers by modelling the transducer through its parametric calculation and then defining the module to excite and receive echoes respective-ly. Though the 200 KHz frequency has been chosen arbitrari-ly, a reason behind the high range frequency is because ge-neric 40 KHz transducer modules are already available in the market such as the microcontroller compatible HC SR-04 and JSN SR-04T but such high power and high frequency trans-ducer signal processing modules are less likely available. These high range transducers could be used for long range perception in air and water. The long-range sensing transduc-er in this particular paper will be targeted for underwater use because most of the underwater sensors are large in size and less cost effective. Moreover, they are mostly military grade and not used for general purpose. Further, piezoelectric PZT – 4 has been chosen as the transducer material for analysis because of its significant coupling factor as appropriate for high acoustic drive. Additionally, they are highly resistant to depolarization and dielectric losses are minimized when high power driven. 

As very limited amount of resources is available for these type of transducers, the paper will bring a better impact through its proposed design. Among a few mentionable work in this field, developed transducer model using block diagram approach to develop dynamic model of thickness-mode piezoelectric transducer. They used their model to characterize the parameters for modelling and ana-lyzing the behavior of piezoelectric transducers. On the con-text of methodological algorithm, worked on target localization using active sonar. In their system, they defined localized target by intersecting four ellipsoids between one emitter and four receivers and calculated the time of flight in air.  They focused on the lo-calization principle and defined the system in a laboratory environment. Their emphasis was autonomous system devel-opment. Further, developed a review on tracking targets using ultrasonic acoustics. In their effort, they developed their literature on the basis of various algo-rithms that used tracking methods to trace targets. Addition-ally, have developed a driv-ing and measuring system to track the high-power transducer resonance and vibration velocity to stabilize the transducer for optimum capabilities. They made the system capable for monitoring the operating and performance parameters of transducer in real time using their control algorithms and simulated the system in LabVIEW. This added to versatile use as the system could be implemented in a flexible manner on various modes of transducers. Furthermore, in their paper labored on sandwiched piezo-electric ultrasonic transducer’s electrical impedance match-ing on electromechanical behaviors. They emphasized on 2 types of impedance matching network models namely type I and II. These were series and parallel combinations of capaci-tance and inductance to model the electrical impedance matching network and they imitated the simulations on PSpice to analyze the time and frequency domain behaviors and hereby characterize the responses of the resonance and anti-resonance frequencies. This paper has used impedance matching using similar methodologies. Then again, designed a miniature high-resolution sonar imager using the frequency steered phased array tech-nology. Their system devoid of high power, complex circuitry and processing units and consisted of large numbers of beams in the form of array to perceive the signals. Though the method presented a high-resolution image, the distance covered by the system was lower in comparison to the expec-tations of this paper. Thus, the paper proposes a designed system that would fill in the necessity of a module for high power, high frequency ultrasonic underwater transducers at 200 KHz.
